Spoiler alert, I'm gonna ask you to write
a product spec here in just a second.
However, I thought it was unfair for
me to not just show you an example first.
So I'm actually gonna show you
the answer first, right, and
then I'm gonna ask you the question.
So I came up with a random product idea
while I was sitting there on the couch.
Let's pretend for
a moment you're a PM at Netflix and
your task is to add a feature that
allows users to video chat like Zoom or
FaceTime with someone and watch
a synchronized stream of a show together.
So imagine you're doing a long distance
relationship, you're in Seattle and
she's in New York or something like that.
So you could watch your show together
with your significant other or
something like that.
Or maybe your friend wants to watch
you watch love, death and robots,
cuz that show`s weird and
it elicits feelings from people,
and don't watch it unless
you're an adult [LAUGH].
So, that would be another
reason that someone might wanna
watch that with someone together.
Is that a good idea?
I don't know.
But let's say we put together a product
spec to then go say maybe we wanna try
this, maybe we don't wanna try this.
Here's how I would write that spec.
For the record by the way,
I don't think this is a good idea, but
it was one that was easy to
produce a product spec for.
So I wrote this last but Netflix users
frequently express a desire to watch shows
with friends and family remotely while
engaging in real-time discussions.
Previous attempts to implement such a
feature have not met the desired results.
The goal is to provide users with the
ability to watch Netflix content together,
regardless of their devices, and
have a synchronous video
chat similar to FaceTime.
Does that describe the project
to you more or less?
ChatGPT, I don't think I
even modified that one.
That one was actually quite pleased
with that came out with, so
I just stuck with that one.
So problem statement,
this is blown out a little bit.
I actually put the user story directly
right there, I'll frequently do that.
I talked a little bit about here that
Netflix has tried this before and
it has been met with varied success here,
but we still get requests for it.
So there's still a problem here
that users are looking to solve,
here's another attempt at it.
Where I can put statistics in here, I'll
usually do that as, hey, this has come up
this many times during support tickets or
X% of requests from this.
And so
here's our proposal to solve said problem.
Goals, allow two people
to watch a show together,
regardless of the device type as
long as it has audio or video.
We make no attempt to shows things that
like it's available in one region and
not in another.
We do wanna allow users to pause, scrub
is what you do when you move back and
forward in time in a video,
that thing is called the scrubber.
Have it work for
both users at the same time and
allow users to use their own subs and
dubs.
So, if I'm hanging out with
my Japanese friend and
they wanna watch in Japanese and
I want to watch in English, that's okay.
Non-goals, cuz you can imagine someone's
gonna raise their hand in the back of
the meeting.
What if I wanna do it with three of us,
right?
This allows us to explicitly say,
not for this version.
If this is wildly successful v2 of
this sure, let's do three users.
We're not trying to sell for
anyone that doesn't have video device,
we're not making webcams, we're not
going to do anything of that nature.
And we're not gonna do anything to
encourage users to chat without watching
a video, right?
So we're not gonna allow them to just use
Netflix as FaceTime essentially, okay?
Key metrics, time watching Netflix using
Watch Together, time spent in chat total.
We wanna check specifically, is this
driving referrals of Netflix, right?
So if I sign up for Netflix and
then immediately use this feature,
it probably means that other person
influenced me to try it and do it so
that we could watch it together, right?
Like if I have it and maybe my
girlfriend doesn't have it, right?
I probably got her to do it so
that we could watch it together or
something like that.
Month-over-month on retention.
I imagine a lot of users are gonna
try this and then not try it again.
That's a very common pattern of usage, so
I wanna make sure this people are finding
enough use in this that
they continue to use it.
And then are they satisfied with this?
We'll give them a little post surveys
like, was this feature useful to you or
did you have problems blah, blah?
This is obviously a big experiment so
rollback criteria here is,
after three months we'll look at
initial metrics if we can pivot.
After six months we're gonna expect to see
and we'll look at it again, six months and
then if by nine months we don't see
any sort of growth during that time,
we will begin with
winding down the feature.
Netflix is really good about this.
I'm sure a lot of you have seen Netflix
will try things and then spin it down,
right?
Trying to think if there's any good
examples that I can point out to.
Skip Intro was experiment that
we ran while I was there and
we had no idea that people would
actually use it frequently.
Cuz we generally had a hypothesis once
people click play they don't really care
what happens.
Turns out that was very not true,
it's extremely popular, right?
So that was one of them
we found surprising, and
it would have been rolled back
if people hadn't used it.
Timelines, product specking period,
this red dot is where we are today.
Technical architecture design working
from the same time development.
We'll have a product review here,
a beta release here and
general availability here,
if it's works out.
And then I pulled out the date
specifically because cuz that's something
that executives want to see.
Okay, and here's my Mock UX, right?
I literally just went on my phone and
just took screenshots and
drew over with MacOS Preview.
So, user opens their app and with the show
that they wanna watch, they click on watch
together you can see here I put a little
emoji there with some text on it, right?
You can see as that this
color doesn't match,
this is definitely not centered,
who cares, right?
This communicates my point, perfectly.
Little modal shows up.
This one already exists in Netflix,
I didn't even have to
redesign that at all, right?
User shares the link with their friend and
then they end up on
watching something up here.
You can tell this is obviously
not the correct video, but
you know what I'm talking about and
I'm not gonna spend a bunch of time
trying to make this look anything else.
As you can see, this probably took me what
all of 30 seconds to draw some boxes and
put some emojis on a page.
And then I took a stock photo and
put it right there.
Done, but you know exactly
what I'm talking about, right?
So caveat there, that's a stock photo and
got it from Unsplash and
the designs belong to Netflix
with only minor edits for me.
That's what I'm talking about with these
super low fidelity super hacky kind of
designs.
This is what I want you to do.
I want you to be crafty about it.
I want you to be fast.
I don't want you to spend
a bunch of time on this.
Think if I had gone into Photoshop and
spent a bunch of time on this,
I would have spent, I don't know
10 extra time, 20 extra time and
how much more effective would
have that been in my spec?
I'm gonna say exactly zero
percent more effective, right?
Maybe you might impress was, this shiny
man maybe I like it a little bit better.
But is that worth hours and
days of your life, you're wasting time.
I'm trying to get you
to not waste time here.
Outstanding questions, frequently,
a lot of my questions are legal.
Like, hey, I don't know if we can
secure content rights for this.
And then I put a technical one in here is,
hey, are we gonna do this over?
WebRTC, are we gonna do a vendor thing
are we gonna build something in house?
We haven't decided that yet
that's a big open question,
I'll put that in there as well.
And then the appendix here I just
put a bunch of links to other docs
I didn't write these docs, but
imagine these docs existed.
Here is one that talks about off-the-shelf
vendors that we could look at.
Here is one that is, what is Hulu,
what is HBO Max doing in this space,
what is Amazon Prime doing in this space?
And here is a retrospective of the Xbox
app that we launched once upon a time and
the Windows after launch once upon a time
and why this is different from them,
right?
That doesn't need to go into product spec,
but I can imagine someone saying,
haven't we tried this before?
Why is this different?
And I was like, let me point
you to the doc that says, hey,
we've tried this before,
why is this different, right?
Cool, and that's a pretty basic product
spec that I feel pretty okay going into
a product review with, hey, here's kind of
everything that I'm thinking about here.
What do you all think about this?
There's plenty of here to discuss and
it keeps it pretty focused on.
Here's what I wanna build,
here's how I wanna build it,
here's why I wanna build it.
What do you all think about this?